# Programming formalisms — Shared document Nov 2024

- 2024-11-20
- Distilled from shared document of same date

## What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: More time to finish exercises
- A: Working in pairs and doing exercises together
- A: Taking a longer time to do exercises and learn and understand what we are doing
- A:Very nice graphics for helping do exercises today
- A:Getting clearer examples on the formal testing 
- A:Clear instructions and more time to finish.
- A:Appropriate time to complete the exercises and having goos resources by hand to check theory and examples.
- A: Having enough time to understand and to work together the exercise really help a lot to understand and finish the task.
- A: Working together, discussion, exercises.
- A: Pair programming exercise was really nice, testing documentation was great

## What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Testing could've been a bit deeper. Covering things like mocking. No idea how good pair programming is supposed to look like in practice (only in theory).
- A: Such lack in code knowledge.
- A: Didn't know exactly how to do the formal testing in pycharm
- A: Certain knowledge gaps when it comes to python coding
- A: Unit testing being a difficult concept
- A: the pull request exercise and the pretend code review exercise were very similar.
- A: VS code not cooperating with the testing module
- A: Some exercises was a bit confusing (ex Exercise 2: put example code to fit the testing framework)
- A: Coding knowledge influence the speed to do the exercises and how much we understan.
- A: The morning lectures seem didn't explain clearly

## What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Maybe perform a quick round of pair programming with the teachers, to me it was not clear how to behave as navigator and I felt like I was micromanaging and being a bad navigator. Refer to online documents for further research in testing (maybe I just missed it). Distribute a cheat sheet after each day summarizing most important?
- A: Include tutorial link or something to get testing to work in another IDE than vs code, instead of just saying "try to get it to work in your IDE". 
- A:  
- A: More examples for each topic
- A: If possible simplify things even further, or expand on rationale behind each step not just "big picture"
- A: Maybe have a example on testing the code.
- A:Having "extra" exercises that are more difficult that one can try when done with the regular exercises. 
- A: Make the lecture clear and concise. Better to give a practical examples than just explain the concept. 
- A: Give more practical examples of git forking and branching and when it is appropriate to use them.
- A: Maybe more practical examples.

## What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

- See Richel's reflection of the day
