# 2025-10-24

- Day 2
- Author: Richel

I think we do not do object-oriented programming, yet I heard
it both today and yesterday. Checking the meeting notes, I see no decision
on this. On the other hand, I do not have time for doing OOP in my
sessions. I suggest to reduce the mentioning of OOP.

For the rest of the day, in my part, I tried out breakout rooms of
1 person. I felt uncomfortable doing so, as I worried the learners would
feel alone. But after some visits, the learners seemed to be fine with
it. There was plenty of opportunity to have a bit longer talks with learners.

During the day, I never rushed, even though there was more on the schedule,
which felt the right choice.


## Day 2

### Retrospect

##### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Interaction during explanations
- A: Better instructions for exercises compared to yesterday
- A: The practical exercises were really great !
- A: Richel's enthusiasm :-)
- A: Individual feedback for exercises
- A: nice explanations and instructions for the tutorials, easy to follow, always there for questions
- A: The exercises were helpful! Practising it and getting feedback is good!
- A: The live examples. It was helpful to get an explanation of the structure
  of the lesson before starting.
  Having a chance to ask questions in the individual breaking room.

##### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Sometimes the assignements are unclear

I wish I knew which ones. I commonly ask if my exercises are clear
and I always get a 'yes'. Sure, I expect a bias for 'yes', yet
I have nothing to go on to suspect it would be my assignments.

- A: No live examples for TDD, I would have appreciated
  at least one live demonstration of the methods before the exercises,
  and not just discussing it theoretically - it is a bit counterintuitive.

I can imagine. I wondered about that too. I've added it to the course material
to try it out.

- A: Too little knowledge in python to be able to feel confident in writing
  tests correctly - are you sure the initial requirements for the course
  are really enough?

I can imagine one feels like this. I am confident she can do this.
I have seen R programmers being able to do this. I supply all the needed
Python code that needs to be used, so I feel: yes, this is doable.
I hope I can get a 1-on-1 about this with her. Additionally, we will do
pair programming next day: this may help her regain her confidence and/or
motivation. I will couple her with someone that is patient and
confident in Python.

- A: rather similar examples, not really sure how this expand (especially TDD)
  to more complex settings, How easy is it to find tests then?

My bad: the goal was to drill TDD, with simple examples (i.e. no focus
on complex code at all). I've added a question box to each exercise,
forcing me to write down why each exercise seems repetitive. Due
to this, I removed one out of 5 exercises. Thanks!

- A: I got issues with git in VS code
  but that probably comes down to my inexperience.

I've seen her struggle. We teachers picked VSCode to reduce this struggle,
so it is painful to see how it still fails. I agree with her, that this will
fix itself with some more experience, together with some patient help
from us teachers. I will try to assure that there will be enough time to get
those issues fixed. And I will couple her with someone that has shown
her confidence with the VSCode IDE :-)

##### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Better defined assignements ?
- A: Give at least one live example of TDD before letting the students tackle the challenge by themselves. Or maybe suggest to watch one of the videos first? 
- A:Maybe a bit more hands-on exercise is good. Something a little complex.
- A:Also, how to relate these good practices in our programming for our disciplines, for example assert and stuff won't work for simulations and other programming.
- A: Do the first TDD example as a team and not individually - one good example would save from waisting time on pracitising the wrong method
- A: Showcasing an exemplary more complex example
- A: 
- A:A way to communicate with the teacher when inside breakout rooms!
- A: 
- A:
- A:3 minutes for the retrospective questions is too long, we always end up answering the next questions during the first one :). maybe 2min? 2:30?
- A:A bit more use case discussion on issues - like a how does it look like for a sample/real life project
- 

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

- Lars clearify excersises
- Time management, make morning session more hands on less theory
- Change from twice a year to only spring. to allow for more prep time for teachers.
- Define clear roles before.

## Confidence Report: (10min)

Give you confidence levels of the following statements,
using this scale:

- 0: I don't know even what this is about ...?
- 1: I have no confidence I can do this
- 2: I have low confidence I can do this
- 3: I have some confidence I can do this
- 4: I have good confidence I can do this
- 5: I absolutely can do this!

 I can create, assign and close an issue"

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 5
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

 I can use TDD to develop functions

- A: 3
- A: 2
- A: 4
- A:
- A:3
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A:

 
 I can use a kanban board

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A:3
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

 I know how to  make a risk for a requirment
 
- A: 2 (but I missed that part unfortunately)
- A: 3
- A: 3
- A: 2
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:

I know the major parts of a development cycle

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A:
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:

I know the major technical risks with a SW project

- A: 2 (also missed that part)
- A: 
- A: 3
- A: 2
- A:2
- A: what does SW stand for, again? 
- A:
- A:
- A:


I know where to find the 'latest' best practices

- A: 2
- A: 1
- A: 2
- A: 4
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand what SDLC is

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 3
- A: 3
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

I know what a Feature is

- A: 4
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A:3
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand how features relate to Requirments

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A:
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand why TDD is important

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 2
- A: 5
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:4
- A:

I understand why `assert` is important

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A:3
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:

I understand why a kanban board is important

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:3
- A: 5
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand why issues are important

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:


