# 2025-10-28

- Day 4
- Author: Richel

I decided to change the lesson plan and at the start
send this in the Zoom chat:

- [ ] Go over the reflection at <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/reflections/2025_autumn/20251027/>
- [ ] Add an extra session with group exercises
  Do so by starting with continuous integration.
  Here they can learn how to write clean enough code
- [ ] After CI, do testing framework
- [ ] After that, continue with regular schedule
- [ ] Clarify how to work with messy data

The first two hours were spend on CI.
I think that was a good idea as I feel that the learners now
know how to write code that is Good Enough.
I had prepared 3 groups of 2 for the CI exercises, however,
one learner was absent, which resulted in 1 group of 3.
I was unhappy about this imbalance. However, the group seemed
to work quite well and when I offered to do 1-on-1 with a volunteer learner,
this offer was rejected.

In the third hour, Lars taught about object-oriented design. It was
unfortunate in some ways, as Lars assumed I would have taught class
design already. Also, his session started 15 minutes later, as I was
unaware of this irregularity in the schedule.

After his teaching, me and Lars discussed this. I said sorry to Lars for
taking 15 minutes too mucg :-) .
We decided to switch things
around, with me teaching 'Class design' for one hour, after which he
has the remaining time. I am happy how we dealt with this.

The fourth hour (i.e. the first after lunch) I had my last session and
here we were with 6 learners. I made the dream groups I had prepared.
And it seemed to work out perfectly! At around 13:40, 2 out of 3 groups
had written a class, where the remaining group had a wonderful dynamics
that I did not want to disturb. I collected the 2 groups that were done
in 1 room, where I discussed code coverage. It was a bit rushed, but I
felt it was worth it.

It has its pros and cons to actually listen to the learners. On the other
hands, I do feel I picked the right things: that what I chose to skip
is -I feel- less important.

## Observation Lars

I decided to make an activity diagram:

Time |Activity                  |Duration
-----|--------------------------|--------
14:15|Monologue                 |2
14:17|Discussion                |3
14:20|Introduce exercise        |5
14:25|Exercise ongoing, room M  |2
14:27|Exercise ongoing, room 1  |<15
14:??|Exercise ongoing, room 2  |?
14:42|Exercise ongoing, room M/3|19
15:01|Monologue                 |14
15:15|Exercise ongoing, room M  |2
15:17|Exercise ongoing, room 1  |1
15:18|Exercise ongoing, room 2  |0
15:18|Exercise ongoing, room 3  |9
15:27|Exercise ongoing, room M  |2
15:29|Exercise ongoing, room 1  |1
15:30|Exercise ongoing, room 2  |2
15:32|Exercise ongoing, room 1  |1
15:33|Exercise ongoing, room 3  |8
15:41|Exercise ongoing, room M  |1
15:42|Monologue                 |9
15:51|Retrospect                |.

## Retrospect

## day 4

What helped us learn (let us move forward) 2 min

- A: As usual, group exercises
- A: The possibility to ask questions and get extensive answers. Thank you for your patience!
- A: 
- A:Group work, practical exercises
- A: 
- A: Continous Integration and group work
- A: Nice group work.
- A: The team exercises, in particular for writing clases. The session on automated testing workflows within GitHub (and locally) were very interesting.
- A: 
- A:
- A: the testing exercise was good! Finding out the options to automate the testing was nice.
- A: Ruff - was a good extension

   
What stopped us from learning (What held us back) 2 min¶


- A: Maybe the schedule was a bit messy today, I would gladly have had class design before OOD
- A:
- A: I found some text, in particular the Object-oriented programming section, hard to read because of typos. I wish it wasn't so much like bullet points. It often asks us about a concept and only give bullet points but we have to go to some alternative reading material to find the answer. Many concepts were remain a bit abstract even after the explanations...I also got lost with many exercises because they were a bit vague or use terms before getting explanations about it (e.g., refactoring)
- A: Maybe some more clarifications about object oriented programming would have been helpful. Less theory and more examples.
- A:
- A: assignments were not always clear, confused about what we should actually do...
- A: a bit confused about the reverseb classroom situtation, since we didn't have time to read up upon it before (and text didn't alwyas provide the answers that were asked there)
- A:
- A: Most concepts introduced today was a hard to intrepret in our discipline specific examples
- A: The concepts of object and class were a little hard.
- A: Time, short answers, no too deep explainations and typos in documentation.
-A: 
- A: Unit test lessons were unclear
- A: Little time to complete all the exercises, would have appreciated less to do but with more time to focus



What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent) 2 min¶


- A: I think in general it would be beneficial to focus on easier tasks and not too much on the weather exercise, with more discussion. Baby steps and more time to digest.
- A:
- A: Better material with less bullet points and more structure and explanations would help
- A: As much as I appreciate working with teams, sometimes I wish I could read on my own without other people around. I find it distracting because I feel pressure to finish faster. I prefer when we get examples explained by the teacher before diving into the exercises.
- A: more explanation of terms and basic "vocabulary", more straigth forward assignments, clearer instructions
- A:
- A: More examples before working on our own, sometimes it is hard to figure out everything on your own
- A:
- A: Also, sometimes the concepts are too simple and feels difficult to relate to our discipline, maybe more examples to show how it looks would be appreciated
- A: Maybe a solid example/exercises on object & class diagrams would be good
- A:
- A: More self-contained examples with answers that we can revisit later on. Add more links to external videos on hands-on coding for every or most concepts.

What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]¶



## Confidence Report: (maximum 10min) You can leave when you are done.

Give you confidence levels of the following statements,
using this scale:

- 0: I don't know even what this is about ...?
- 1: I have no confidence I can do this
- 2: I have low confidence I can do this
- 3: I have some confidence I can do this
- 4: I have good confidence I can do this
- 5: I absolutely can do this!

I understand why Continuous Integration is useful

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A: 4

I can find the error messages given by the Continuous Integration tests

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A: 5

I can (choose to) write code that is Good Enough

- A: 4
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A:
- A:
- A:3
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A: 5
- A:

I understand what a Semantic gap is?

- A: 4
- A: 1
- A: 3
- A:
- A:1
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:


I Comprehend the principles of object-oriented development, such as information hiding


- A: 5
- A:
- A: 4
- A:
- A: 3
- A: 3
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

I know what modular programming is


- A: 3
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A:3
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

I have an idea when use classes is worth it (and when not)

- A: 3
- A:
- A: 4
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

I can give some features of good class design

- A: 4
- A: 2
- A:
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:

I can write a simple class

- A: 4
- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A:3
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A: 4
- A:
- A:

I understand the type of relation 'composition'


- A: 3
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A:
- A: 1
- A:
- A:

Iterative refactoring


- A: 5
- A: 2
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A: 1
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A: 

Learn about common interfaces, protocols, and their role in modular programming.


- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A: 1
- A:
- A:  1
- A:
- A:1
- A:
- A: 1
- A:
- A:

Learn the definition and characteristics of an object, 

- A: 5
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A: 4 (after intensive discussion with Lars)
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:

Recognize and address tight coupling in code to improve modularity.

- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A: 1
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A: 

Recognize the importance of relationships between classes including coposition and association


- A: 4
- A:
- A:
- A: 1
- A: 1
- A:
- A: 2
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

Understand the benefits of object-oriented development


- A: 4
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:
- A: 4
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A: 

Understand the concept of code smells and design smells

- A: 5
- A: 4
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:

Understand the definition and structure of a class as a collection of objects 

- A: 5
- A:
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A: 4
- A: 2
- A:
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:


      
