# Reflection 2024-02-22 Day 1 by Richel

This day, I was only a helper, except for the Retrospect.

I am unhappy with the Retrospect, maybe because I felt I could
not copy Jon. What is it that Jon did differently?
I forgot to mention to the learners that the results will be
stored as-is on the course repo, so they can see we actually
read (and respond to) those. 

Also the discussion of the Retrospect: the last item is 'Action points'.
I feel these were more discussion results. Maybe Jon would have
done better by pushing for an action...?

I was happy that the teacher had more time for exercises.

I was happy to see one of my colleagues dared to point to random learners
to give an answer to a question.

We teachers had a discussion on what to include in the course material
what should be in and what should not: what algorithm should we used?

Mine:

```
Only discuss theory that ...

- is (and can be) checked by an exercise
- is needed for the shared project

When in doubt, remove.
```

I am happy we discussed this, it shows we are open to discussing our ideas.

A list of things that my algorithm suggests to move/remove are:

- risk analysis: no exercise, not needed for shared project
- use of ChatGPT to generate design documents: no exercise, 
  not needed for shared project (as the learners create the
  documents themselves)
- creating an own GitHub repo: not needed for shared project
- markdown markup: no exercise, not needed for shared project,
  maybe do this at the documentation lecture on Friday
- mermaid markup on Monday: no exercise, 
  instead do this at the class design lecture
- optimization, not vital to the shared project
- documentation on Monday: no exercise, 
  instead do this at the documentation lecture on Friday
- pseudocode: no exercise, not needed for shared project
