# Reflection 2024-02-23 Day 2 by Richel

This was the schedule taken from my lesson plan:

When          |What              |Status
--------------|------------------|-----------------------------------------
TU 13:00-14:00|Pair programming 1|Draft of content, draft of exercises
TU 14:00-14:45|Pair programming 2|Draft of content, draft of exercises
TU 15:00-15:45|TDD 1             |[1] Draft of content, draft of exercises

I started at 13:00 sharp with 7 students. There would be 2 more learners
in a couple of minutes. I started by showing the 'Who is Richel'
presentation on my `teaching` repo. I think it is dull, yet it felt useful 
enough. I asked for questions and I did get one, that I rejected, as
it was unrelated to teaching. I regret that I had to reject it,
so next time I will ask 'Are there question on this way of teaching?',
as this is more precisely what I mean.

I felt it would be a good to start with a course overview,
to remind the learners of the big picture. 
This felt useful.

The pair programming session started with a 'Prior Knowledge',
which was unavoidably shallow. I still feel it was useful to
stick to a Mike Bell teaching cycle. A quick poll showed
none had ever pair programmed (however, I think my question
was too vague, as some stated to have pair programmed in the past).

The 'Present' was short, describing they why. 
I did a literature check in the early morning 
and added the doubt surrounding the effectiveness of pair programming
in developing code. I feel it made it stronger that it is such a great
tool for teaching.

The 'Challenge' was a literature read:
I felt that is more useful then me reading out loud the literature.
During the description of the exercise, 
I had mixed feelings when one learner said 
it was the first clear exercise in this course,
but hey, my exercise came across as clear :-)
The timing of that exercise was perfect!

In the 'Feedback' phase I was struggling a bit with picking from options.
I fumbled with asking again the same questions as in the 'Prior' 
to see a difference. I quickly went to the answers I'd written
down, which seemed to be a good idea. 

In general, I think the 'Feedback' phase is now my weakest.

As I want to prepare the next sessions, I'll speed up a bit now:

Pair programming exercises 1 and 2 felt unnatural,
as these had no logical cycles.
Next time, do TDD in isolation first, then in pairs!

- [ ] Next course iteration, do TDD in isolation first for at least 3 cycles,
      then start pair programming

Learners still struggled with git. I feel this should be dealt with on day 1.

- [ ] Next course iteration, strongly encourage the git teacher to discuss
      and cause merge conflicts, as they do happen in the basic
      git workflow when duos work on one file

Creating empty classes should be done in isolation, ideally during the 
basic git workflow session.

- [ ] Next course iteration, encourage the git teacher to create
      empty classes

