# Programming formalisms — Course April 2024

- Zoom:  https://uu-se.zoom.us/j/61013274662 
  - Passcode: 202277
- Course material: 
  - https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms
- Shared project: 
  - https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_summer_2024

## Friday 26 April

### Modular programming

- Q: Can you give an example of a design pattern? 
    - A:
- Q: 
    - A:
- Q: 
    - A:
- Q: 
    - A:
- Q: 
    - A:

### Deployment and documentation

- Q:
- A:

- Q:
- A:

- Q:
- A:

- Q:
- A:

- Q:
- A:


## Retrospective Day 5

Teachers are learners too. Please help us improve by sharing your opinion.
Ideally, it is something fixable, e.g. 'My camera did not work' is something
we cannot fix, but 'I had no way to interact (as my camera did not work) and the Zoom chat was not listened to' is.

### Continue: What went well?

- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- 
- 
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Improve: Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises?

- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- 
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Question: should a GitHub course be a prerequisite?

In the course we spend a lot of time on GitHub as we use/need it. 
However, there are plenty of GitHub courses (e.g. NBIS has one).
Should having followed a GitHub course be a prerequisite?

- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...


### Stop: What held us back?

- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Invent: What can we improve?

- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...

## Course evaluation

&TLDR: write something about the course

The course motto is 'turning scripters into computer scientists',
by 'adding theory to bolster already present practical skills'.
The purpose of the shared project is to give a realistic/complex environment
where the theoretical concepts can be experienced (e.g. branching, code reviews).

- How can we better achieve those goals?
- Where did we do a good job and where could we do better?
- What would you keep and what would you change? 
- If you want to do more of something, what should be done less of?

### Write something about the course 1

...

### Write something about the course 2

...

### Write something about the course 3

...

### Write something about the course 4

...

### Write something about the course 5

...

### Write something about the course 6

...

### Write something about the course 7

...

### Write something about the course 8

...

### Write something about the course 9

...

### Write something about the course 10

...


--- 
