# Programming formalisms — Course April 2024

- Zoom:  https://uu-se.zoom.us/j/61013274662 
  - Passcode: 202277
- Course material: 
  - https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms
- Shared project: 
  - https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_summer_2024


## Today 26 April

## Retrospective

Teachers are learners too. Please help us improve by sharing your opinion.
Ideally, it is something fixable, e.g. 'My camera did not work' is something
we cannot fix, but 'I had no way to interact (as my camera did not work) and the Zoom chat was not listened to' is.

### Continue: What went well?

- Most of the pair programming and TDD went well. Really enjoyed todays topics and exercises. I just had a great day with learning (from both teachers and other learners). WE really got a chance to practice the workflow.
- Exercises were really fun, I really enjoyed today's exercises. I really appreciate that we had more time for hands-on exercises.
- ...
- ...
- ...
- Good lectures and a lot of good exercices to get use to GitHub
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Improve: Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises?

- I think we had enough time for most exercises. However, at this point you also know when it is fine to not finish an exercise.
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Stop: What held us back?

- The groups were switched too often, which in turn, broke the continuity of lessons since everyone was doing somewhat different things.
- Expected to have more on Data structures and algorithms
- Too much GitHub, interesting but maybe it should be a separate course
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Invent: What can we improve?

- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Action points by teachers

Only for teachers! Thanks for filling in!

--- 
