# Lesson plan Day 1

- Author: Richel
- Date: 2026-05-04

## 20206-04-02

From [the meeting notes of 2025-12-04](../../meeting_notes/20251204.md):

> The schedule has already been updated

I've made it tidy

- [R] I think all of us should follow the NBIS 'Train the Trainer' course,
  as I think some more knowledge on teaching would help us prepare our lessons
  better.

B took it. L focuses on his health first.

- [R] As we do not actually work on a project,
  I suggest to remove pretending to do so
  or add more time for this.
  In any case, I do think we should keep working on a shared repository.

We try again, we try more cycles.

- [R] I suggest to expand the programming languages we use, i.e. R and Bash,
  as per request of some future learners. This will mainly affect Richel.
  This will be easiest to do if there is no shared project.

N/A.

- [R] As we do not use issues in practice,
  I suggest to remove the session on issues.

Build them in instead, as it is part of a workflow.

- [R] As we do not use the kanban board in practice,
  I suggest to remove the session on kanban board.

We kill it!

- [R] As we do not use the risk assessment in practice,
  I suggest to remove that section.

- [R] As we do not use the requirements document in practice,
  I suggest to remove that section.

- [R] As our learners are academics,
  I suggest to replace a requirements document
  by a draft paper.

- [R] As we do not apply the content of 'Modularity' in practice,
  I suggest to remove this session.

Put it earlier: let learners create two modules in the project.

- [R] As I think there is too big of a gap between the content
  of 'Object oriented development' and all other lectures,
  I suggest to rewrite or remove it.

This item is now void, as R takes over this session
and can fix it.

- [R] As I think there should be enough time for function design,
  I suggest to remove all sessions on OOP, unless functions can be
  discussed properly.

We should try to keep OOP in and agree
that function design must be in there.

- [During meeting] We should invite other people to join in on teaching this
  course

We agreed to (try to) do so.
