# Meeting on 2023-11-15

Agenda:

- Round Robin -> How is everyone coming along with their parts
    - RB:
        - example project has standard structure and CI checks work
        - needs design document for example project
        - see also [PF Open Issues](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues)
    - BC:
        - spell checking of [Intro Day](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms_intro)
        - word list
        - restructure
        - refine the planet project
    - LE:
        - Continued working on the DPD
        - Continued writing on the Design material
        - TODO: Transfer the new AI part to The lecture
        - TODO: Expand the Design Pattern lecture and restructure the OO lecture
    - Status report
        - RB: Course website is ready
        - RB: Example project needs completed design documents
    - Work in full team or split into Pairs for Pair programming and development
        - RB: Depends on what we are going to do :-)
    - Merge the branches
        - RB: Course website: done :-)
        - RB: Example project: done :-) (it had no branches)
- Wrap up and schedule next meeting.
