---
tags:
  - meeting
  - notes
---

# Meeting at 2023-09-25 11:00

Suggested agenda points:

- Next course date is at Monday Nov 27 to and including Friday 1 Dec (+5)
- [R, 0 mins, L needs to fill in :-) ] Who intends to teach/assist in the next course? Björn, Jon, Lars, Marcus, Richel
- [R, 2 mins, vote] R: I suggest to work on a non-biological project. Vote yes/no
    - Jon suggests to move the November 1st
    - [R, 2 mins, vote] R: if we have a biological project, I suggest to schedule the time to explain the problem properly. Vote yes/no
- Course is a NBIS hosted course with UPPMAX being main contributor for teaching
    - Should be on the certificate
- R: suggest to make 'Planning' session shorter, more tuned to scientists, e.g. 'Write down what you want to do in English first' or writing a draft of a paper/preregistration. R feels that current ISO things are overkill for this course. No vote
- We work together on a example project, so the students have one good example how it should be done.
- [R, 17 mins total] R: suggest one/two project topics (1 for students, maybe 1 for teachers)
    - [10 mins, collect] All suggest the topics for a general project individually, in silence [R asked in Slack to do this before meeting]
        - [0 votes] R: beat all <https://projecteuler.net/> problems
        - [4 votes][students] R: simulating bacterial movement in 2D space +:t-rex::t-rex: x
        - [1 votes] R: a chess game :t-rex:
        - [2 votes] R: a tic-tac-toe game :t-rex: +
        - [0 votes] R: a chat-bot without memory of earlier questions
        - [2 votes] R: a maze creator and solver +:t-rex:
        - [1 votes] J: Morse Code Translator: Build a program that can translate text to Morse code and vice versa. This can be a fun and educational project. :t-rex:
        - [3 votes] J: Simple Web Scraper: Develop a web scraper that extracts specific information from a website and displays it in the console. You can use libraries like requests and BeautifulSoup. +:t-rex:x
        - [5 votes][selves!] M: N-body simulation, e.g. galaxy sim or predator-prey + :t-rex:+:t-rex:x
        - [2 votes] M: crystal growing simulation: generate snowflakes :t-rex:x
        - [1 votes] L: 2D brownian motion :t-rex:project /can be branded as bacterial movemnt x
        - [3 votes] L: Trait selection simulation :+1::t-rex:x
    - [5 mins, present] Each presents his/her suggested topics
    - [2 mins, vote] Each does :+1: per topic. Two topics with most :+1:s wins
    - Result, obtained by vote:
        - For us: N-body simulation, e.g. galaxy sim or predator-prey
        - For students: simulating bacterial movement in 2D space

## TODOs

- [x] M and R will down more detailed exact description about their projects and send to L
    - [x] M: The program should visually display a number of particles on a field. Particles are initialised with a certain position and speed. Each particle interacts with all the other particles in a simple way, e.g. gravitational attraction, Lennard-Jones potential, direction alignment (implementing a flocking behaviour), or something else, the group chooses which. Decide on a boundary condition (e.g. bounce or wrap or eliminate the particle). The simulation is then stepped forward, drawing each step, until stopped. The goal is to create a stable simulation capable of the maximum number of particles at an acceptable framerate.
    - [x] R: `https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/blob/richel/projects/student_project.md`
