# Meeting 2024-03-04 13.00

- Attendees: Björn + Lars

- Status
    - more structure now
        - days in menu
            - intro files to anounce the content/schedule of the day
        - some files and folders
    - Björn has migrated some of his material

- To discuss
    - Tree
        - [x] intro [name=bjorn]
        - [x] project_overview
        - [x] project start
        - [x] design_development
        - [x] git [name=bjorn]
        - [x] test_TDD [name=Richel]
        - [x] data_structures [name=Richel]
        - [x] modularity [name=Lars]
        - [x] algorithms [name=Richel + Lars?]
        - [x] optimisation [name=Richel]
        - [x] deployment [name=bjorn]
        - [x] extra_BC [name=bjorn]
        - [x] reading [name=Lars]

    - Code editor
        - VS code but own choice

