---
tags:
  - meeting
  - notes
---

# Meeting April 10th Wednesday 11:00-12:00

Attendees:

- [X] Bj√∂rn
- [x] Lars
- [x] Richel

Progress:

- Week 13: learning objectives on pages: ...
    - B: ?done!
    - L: ?Monday done, need to do Tuesday and Friday
    - R: draft, need revision
- Week 14: start of draft of exercises in place: <--
    - B: added most of them (needs some updates)
    - L:
    - R: done
- Week 15: draft of material in place: ...
    - B: most is there but need to be restructured and shortened
    - L:
    - R: done

Open Issue                                                  |Assigned|Progress
------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------
<https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/29>|R       |None
<https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/30>|BLR     |B done Mo
<https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/31>|BLR     |R done
<https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/33>|.       |Discuss next meeting


Discuss:

- [LR, FYI, 3 mins] L wants to have some people from other departments to help as a TA,
  with the goal of getting to know each other.
    - R will happily set them work, especially in the pair programming! R will contact L

- [R] The goal of the prereqs page is that our learners can verify that they have installed the minimum requirements for the course. Achieved? If not, what is next plan?
    - BC makes a review again.
- [R, FYI, 3 mins] R made a more detailed overview at <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/intro/> , with project exercises at the bottom. Maybe you find it helpful too?
- [B] Demos and examples fro BC's theory part
    - Use parts of planet project!!
- [R] L seems to be lagging behind. How can we help?
    - L will report his progress on the Slack, so others an jump in
- [R] Remember to remind learners to have a proper place to talk,
      with proper equipment
- [B] Use HackMD as a shared document? B+L+R: yes!
