# Programming Formalisms meeting 2024-11-08

## Agenda

- status
- issues/discussions
- other discussions
    - add below!
- To Dos
- More things?
    - add below


## Status

- Registrations
    - Number: 14 (post URL in slack)
    - Do we need to send more information?
        - Lars prepare something and we review during the day
- Schedule to be set today
    - RB: I feel schedule is done
    - DONE
- Material: How's production
    - BC: rather bad but possible
    - RB: done nothing so far, will start on Tuesday
    - LE: start Wed more effectively

## Issues/discussions

- [Content](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues)

## Other discussions

- RB: what about we evaluate shortly after the course and then
  determine the schedule then? I feel we should change our minds less

## ToDos (who)

- move existing files to right day (configure file): BJÃ¶rn does this
- develop material (all)

----

## Last week

- [Contact NBIS Training Hub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/41)

> Recommendations, first follow ([link](https://training.scilifelab.se/our_resources/trainer_community)):
>
> - Train the Trainer
> - Organisational learning course
> - The Swedish context of Open Sciece
>
> Advice:
>
> - All team members should try to do a reflection
> - Try to build in peer observation within team
> - Contact former students informally to see which part of the curriculum was most important to them
>     - R: Why, besides being interesting?
>         - Because it may help shape the course curriculum
>         - R: Unsure about that: we pick what we need to discuss.
> - Individually schedule a meeting with the NBIS Training Hub

Next meeting:

- Friday Nov 9th 9:00-9:45. Schedule will be locked after that meeting!
