---
tags:
  - meeting
  - notes
---

# Meeting notes

- Tuesday Dec 17 9:00
- Goal: Decide week for Autumn course
    - [Decide week for Autumn course](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/140)
    - Lars: no week 42, has things on oct 13-16
    - Decicision: Week 43 it is for now, we'll postpone if needed
- Goal: discuss all unresolved issues
    - [Having one or two schedules](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/85)
        - Decided: one place for a schedule, use the 'Schedule' as the only place :+1:
    - [Pick date for a working-on-the-course day](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/96)
        - Decided: two half days
        - Goal: do the things we need each other for
        - Jan 15th 13:00-16:00 IRL at Ånström, room 103130
            - [DONE] Björn books a room
            - Reflect if we are happy with the way
            - Pick second date then
    - [Learners' project](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/123)
        - B: some learners may not feel it is relevant,
          pandas uses Titanic data
        - L: agree for simpler project and relevant to science and domain agnostic
        - B: let's agree on the features:
            - Data should be there: B, L, R
            - Both input and output: B, L, R
            - take other users into account: B, L, R
            - use of external packages: B, L, R
        - Lars will come up with a learners' project suggestion
          next time
    - [Decide upon folder structure](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/139)
        - L: Move Lars stuff into `docs` [DONE]
        - R: Move `images` into `docs` [DONE]
        - R: Delete `mkdocs_uppmax`, do a rename first
        - We all agree that there are too many folders and
          we'll put our own work into subfolders
    - B: Menu layout (#121). Lars agrees to whatever we do!
        - Follow the SDLC:
            - Planning
            - Design
            - Development
            - Testing
            - Deployment
- For Lars: decisions taken based on majority vote:
    - [Discuss merge conflicts on day 1](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/93)
        - Agreed
    - [Provide worked-out answer for exercises](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/84)
        - Agreed
    - [Use terminal from VSCode](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/83)
        - Agreed
    - [Use git from VSCode](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/82)
        - Agreed
        - Should we show CLI at all? Or just click through things?
            - L + R: click through things, to spend less time on git commands
            - B: will test how well this idea would work
            - B: how does that affect the prerequisites?
            - R: will be reduced :-)
            - B: how is the threshold of the course?
                - R: if they have been able to write a script, this
                  seems high enough to me
                - L: we seem to hit the target audience, so it
                  seems right
            - [DECIDED] So, no `git` as a prerequisite :-)
























