---
tags:
  - meeting
  - notes
---

# Meeting Wednesday 27 March 11:00-12:00

Attendees:

- Björn
- Lars
- Richel

Progress [5 mins]:

Open Issue                                                  |Assigned|Progress
------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------
<https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/16>|L       |WIP

5 Issues were closed.

- Björn:
    - Made all required installations on Windows and Mac and rewrote prerequirements (took whole day last Friday)
    - started with some goals and planning for which files to start from
- Richel:
    - add all learning objectives to my pages
    - convert some Quarto lecture slides to markdown

Discuss:

- [Björn -> Richel] Can someone check the prereqs for Linux? Richel does that!
- [Björn for Lars] Please check <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/introductions/sdlc_tools/#software-citation>
- [Richel, 5 mins] I am happy to see learning objectives on our pages, as this helps one focus on how/what to teach! Learning objectives, however, should be learner-centered, active, observable and specific, e.g. 'learners are able to do a git push', instead of vague 'We will get some theory of X'. Could we try to make all teaching objectives learner-centered, active, observable and specific? I volunteer to do Pull Requests :-)
    - [VOTED] BLR: Yes
    - Other votes: No
- [Richel, 5 mins] I am happy to see the prereqs page and the obvious love put in it. I am unsure of the page's purpose. Could we come up with a purpose of the page and vote? As Björn will the one teaching the first sessions, however, I agree he is boss on this. Also, I volunteer to do the work. If we discuss: The goal of the prereqs page is ...
    - [VOTED] BLR: that our learners can verify that they have installed the minimum requirements for the course
    - [other votes]: [other suggestions]
- [Richel, 5 mins] I think it is useful that we do anonymous evaluations. However, when analyzing the evaluations, most questions are useless to me. Which questions are useful to the others? Below is my dream evaluation:
    - Lars: we **must** follow the NBIS parts.
    - [TODO] Next next meeting: we all put our dream evaluation here before next meeting

```
- What should we keep doing?
- What should we improve?
- Other comments?
```

- [Richel, 5 mins] I enjoy how we all try to improve on the course. However, having too few time for exercises seems to be a running theme, although we seem to have the will to improve this. Here I suggest something to help us commit: making it an explicit retrospect and evaluation question. Dare we commit to this?
    - [VOTED] BLR: Yes


Retrospect example:

```
## Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises? <--- SUGGESTED
```

Evaluation example:

```
- Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises? <--- SUGGESTED
```


Future schedule:

- Week 13: learning objectives on pages [will rework a bit]
- Week 14: start of draft of exercises in place [Björn away]
- Week 15: draft of material in place
- Week 16: improve
- Week 17: teaching
