---
tags:
  - meeting
  - notes
---

# Meeting 2024-02-21

- [Richel, 5 mins] Discuss the word 'theoretical':
    - the content of the course can be as practical or theoretical as Lars wants it to be. I have no problem with content being about theory.
    - teaching time consists out of lecturing and exercises. Here I misused the terms 'theoretical' for 'lecturing' and 'practical' for 'exercises'. Here we know that whatever the content is, there must be exercises, see among others [Bell, 2020] for an evidence-based 5 step model (1. Prior knowledge, 2. Present, 3. Challenge, 4. Feedback, 5. Repeat), that overlaps with [Hattie, 2008].
        - We agree :-)
- [Richel, 5 mins] The course goals use 'understand' a lot. This is commonly mapped to the one-but-lowest level in Bloom's taxonomy (Wikipedia: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloom%27s_taxonomy#Cognitive_domain_(knowledge-based)>, see 'Comprehension')(pretty picture: <https://www.alfaandfriends.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/revised-blooms-taxonomy.jpg>). Is this word really properly chosen? If not, could we use the right verbs? I feel we do aim at higher levels, but maybe I should change my teaching. In any case: how do we test for this level being achieved (spoiler: exercises)?
    - We tend to drift to the Apply level, yet also sometimes to Design. Some of us try to be more precise in writing down teaching goals.
    - We (intend to) teach at the Apply level and if there is more time, we go up higher
- [VOTED] Vote for using MkDocs
- [Björn, 20m] Discuss schedule below
    - Examples:
        - If two teacher on one day, we all agree to mix up the day itself
        - Merging Wed somehow: yes, will work!
        - shortening Thu if possible?: done!
        - shortening Fri if possible: done!
        - this is to fit with wrapping-up of project: done!

- ToDos:
    - We are basically two teachers per day. Let's plan for 2-person meetings!
    - Björn
    - Lars
    - Richèl


### Schedule

- Remember: The initial aims for the course
    - give scientists with some experience in programming and scripting:
        - an **understanding** of the **underlying principles** of software development, design, and programming.
    - strengthen the **understanding** of:
        - more **advanced programming concept**s
        - **ability to produce** more reusable scripts through modular programming
        - enable a better **understanding** of how to evaluate a script or programs **performance**.
    - encourage the **use of software development tools**, like:
        - Unified Model Language
        - Git and Github
    - convince the benefits of **sharing and social coding**

- So... practicals are very important but also the theory of whats and whys

### Proposed schedule Björn modified from Richèl's, see below

Day      |Time       |Teacher|Subject
---------|-----------|-------|-----------------------------------------------------------
Monday   |09:00-12:00|Lars   |Parts from Björn's intro and Class design (in groups, on repo, using web interface only)
Monday   |13:00-16:00|Björn  |Start project git basic on documents (no coding?) (in groups, on repo)
|||
Tuesday  |09:00-12:00|Lars   |Create project's class diagram (using git)
Tuesday  |13:00-16:00|Richel |pair programming + TDD
|
Wednesday|09:00-10:00|Björn  |understand git branches, git merge
Wednesday|10:15-11:00|Richel |apply git branches
Wednesday|11:15-12:00|Björn  |understand git pull request with code review
Wednesday|13:00-14:00|Richel |apply code review
Wednesday|14:15-15:00|Richel |understand TDD (+data structures)
Wednesday|15:15-15:45|Richel |apply TDD (+data structures)
Wednesday|15:45-16:00|Richel |retrospect
|||
Thursday |09:00-12:00|Richel |Data structures (+ algorithms)
Thursday |13:00-16:00|R (+M) |Algorithms + Optimisation
|
Friday   |09:00-12:00|Lars   |Modular programming deep
Friday   |13:00-16:00|Björn  |Deployment


- Monday (Björn and Lars together)
    - overview
        - Lessons
            - Less "what is programming/scripting"
            - SDLCs
            - risk analys
            - modules intro
            - oo intro (students ready for Tue morning)
            - (paradigms/formalised devel)
            - tools (all presented) [name=Björn]
        - Activities
            - discussions
    - Start project with planning
        - Week Project with interspersed theory
            - initiate git/github [name=Björn]
            - UML, (pseudocode), design
            - object (early process)
            - initial documentation (how) [name=Björn]
- Tuesday (Lars and Richèl together) (+ Björn?)
    - Class diagrams (45 theory)
    - reproducibility (part of everything) ([name=Lars] and all)
        - sharing etc
    - Pair programming
    - TDD (also overview of testing?)
        - Activities
            - coding


- Wednesday (Richèl and Björn together)
    - git branches (merging, issues, pull requests)
        - activities
            - features?
    - More TDD (??) + code reviews (issues/pull requests)
    - These can be more or less merged?
    - Q: How much time is required here?
        - Can we move something from the last days here?
        - (Data structures)
- Thursday (Richèl alone?)
    - (Data structures)
    - Algorithms
    - Optimisation
    - (Modular programming)
- Friday (Lars and Richèl) (+ Björn?)
    - (Modular programming)
        - Packaging, virtualenv (do it!)
    - Deployment
        - Packaging, virtualenv (do it!)
    - (Wrap up with documentation and package)


### Proposed schedule Richèl

Day      |Time       |Teacher|Subject
---------|-----------|-------|-----------------------------------------------------------
Monday   |09:00-12:00|Lars   |Class design (in groups, on repo, using web interface only)
Monday   |13:00-16:00|Björn  |git basic (in groups, on repo)
Tueday   |09:00-12:00|Lars   |Create project's class diagram (using git)
Tueday   |13:00-16:00|Richel |pair programming + TDD
Wednesday|09:00-12:00|Björn  |git branches
Wednesday|13:00-16:00|Richel |TDD + Code reviews
Thursday |09:00-12:00|Richel |Data structures
Thursday |13:00-16:00|Richel |Algorithms
Friday   |09:00-12:00|Lars   |Modular programming
Friday   |13:00-16:00|R (M)  |Optimisation


- Abbreviations: algos = algorithms, DP = Design patterns, DS = data structures, optimi = optimization, social = social coding, TDD = Test Driven Development
    - [name=Lars]:DP should mention refinment optimization of design through DP
