# Meeting 2024-03-06 11.00

- Attendees: everyone
- Estimated time before meeting: 33 mins
- Actual time: 38 mins

Points:

- [Richel, FYI, 1 min] I enjoy [the new course website](https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/). Thanks Björn!
- [Richel, FYI, 1 min] The mermaid `git` graphs are great, e.g. `https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/git/apply_merge/#exercise-2-practice-merge-conflicts-between-branches`!
- [Richel, FYI, 1 min] git exercises are ready, including teaching goals
- [Richel, vote, 5 mins] Agree on <https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/20> yes/no? Richel: Yes, Björn: yes. Lars: yes.
    - Björn: We should mention PlantUML in the tools session but point to the ReadExtra section. Lars: I will do that!
- [Richel, discuss, 5 mins] Discuss <https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/21>.
    - Bjorn wiloblemsl do this
- [Richel, discuss, 5 mins] Discuss <https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/22>
    - Richel will do this
- [Richel, discuss with Björn, 3 mins] I'd like to link to a git book, over writing own content. [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) is an authority. What about using it? If not, which book?
    - Björn will check the book and picks a book, Richel will follow
    - Lars: Book should be in the reading materials. Richel: it is already there :+1:
- [Richel, discuss, 3 mins] Is there a moment learners can get help with setting up? If yes, when?
    - Onboarding takes place Thursday 18th April 11:00-(max)12:00!
    - Lars and Björn and Richel show up
    - possibly individual help later on if huge problems
- [Richel, discuss, 3 mins] Some courses schedule an hour to train the TAs. Do we have TAs? If yes, should we schedule this? FYI, I wrote down the breakout room policy at where I describe my exercises' procedure
    - Lars: no TAs yet, we can ask NBIS if we discover we need some
- [Richel, discuss, 3 mins] Discuss <https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/23>
    - Björn does it
- [Richel, discuss, 3 mins] Discuss moving schedule from this doc to course website, under 'About the course -> Schedule'
    - Björn does it
- [Lars, FYI] Lars prepares the NBIS course landing pages tomorrow/Thursday 7th March
    - Björn: link to NBIS Anmälan in InfoGlue? Lars: when ready, I will contact you
- Björn: How many applications? Lars: a few already
- [Lars, FYI] We now have a formal NBIS email address for the course.
  Lars will fix getting access to that email address
- [Lars, FYI] We need a Canvas page, I will make it link to the course pages
- Björn: need Richel and Lars coordinate? Nope, they work quite isolated :-)
- Lars: need Richel and Marcus coordinate? Richel will coordinate :-)
    - [ ] TODO: Richel updates Marcus :-)
- Next meeting: Wednesday 20 March 11:00-12:00 (next week is teaching week)
- Lars allows everyone to fix his spelling errors

