# Meeting notes

- Date: 2025-12-04 15:00 @ BMC

- [R] If a course leader does not have the proper time to do his/her job,
  consider transferring course leadership to someone that can lead
  the course properly.

The course leader stuggled and struggles with his health.
However, as all teachers have an idea of the course philosophy,
we keep course leadership as it is.

- [R] If a coordinator does not have the proper time to do his/her job,
  consider transferring course coordination to someone that can coordinate
  the course properly

The course leader stuggled and struggles with his health and agrees
to step back temporarily. B and R share temporarily take over course
coordination, where B does the NAISS side and R the NBIS side.

- [R] If a teacher does not have the proper time to prepare,
  consider reducing the amount of teaching hours for that
  teacher, so he/she has the time to focus on those fewer hours.

B and L stated that they could focus their time on less hours instead
and transfer some to R. Here are the changes:

| Topic                       | Teacher |
|-----------------------------|---------|
| Risk assessment             | L       |
| Requirements specifications | L       |
| Other stuff by L            | L -> R  |
| Intro                       | B -> R  |
| git                         | B -> R  |
| Deployment                  | B       |
| Documentation               | B       |

The schedule has already been updated.

- [R] I think all of us should follow the NBIS 'Train the Trainer' course,
  as I think some more knowledge on teaching would help us prepare our lessons
  better.

B took it. L focuses on his health first.

- [R] As we do not actually work on a project,
  I suggest to remove pretending to do so
  or add more time for this.
  In any case, I do think we should keep working on a shared repository.

We try again, we try more cycles.

- [R] I suggest to expand the programming languages we use, i.e. R and Bash,
  as per request of some future learners. This will mainly affect Richel.
  This will be easiest to do if there is no shared project.

N/A.

- [R] As we do not use issues in practice,
  I suggest to remove the session on issues.

Build them in instead, as it is part of a workflow.

- [R] As we do not use the kanban board in practice,
  I suggest to remove the session on kanban board.

We kill it!

- [R] As we do not use the risk assessment in practice,
  I suggest to remove that section.

- [R] As we do not use the requirements document in practice,
  I suggest to remove that section.

- [R] As our learners are academics,
  I suggest to replace a requirements document
  by a draft paper.

- [R] As we do not apply the content of 'Modularity' in practice,
  I suggest to remove this session.

Put it earlier: let learners create two modules in the project.

- [R] As I think there is too big of a gap between the content
  of 'Object oriented development' and all other lectures,
  I suggest to rewrite or remove it.

This item is now void, as R takes over this session
and can fix it.

- [R] As I think there should be enough time for function design,
  I suggest to remove all sessions on OOP, unless functions can be
  discussed properly.

We should try to keep OOP in and agree
that function design must be in there.

- [During meeting] We should invite other people to join in on teaching this
  course

We agreed to (try to) do so.
