# Meeting notes

- Date: 2025-12-04 15:00 @ BMC

- [R] If a course leader does not have the proper time to do his/her job,
  consider transferring course leadership to someone that can lead
  the course properly.

- [R] If a coordinator does not have the proper time to do his/her job,
  consider transferring course coordination to someone that can coordinate
  the course properly

- [R] If a teacher does not have the proper time to prepare,
  consider reducing the amount of teaching hours for that
  teacher, so he/she has the time to focus on those fewer hours.

- [R] I think all of us should follow the NBIS 'Train the Trainer' course,
  as I think some more knowledge on teaching would help us prepare our lessons
  better.

- [R] If a teacher does not read the evaluation results,
  lets not bother the learners by asking those questions.

- [R] As we do not actually work on a project,
  I suggest to remove pretending to do so
  or add more time for this.
  In any case, I do think we should keep working on a shared repository.

- [R] I suggest to expand the programming languages we use, i.e. R and Bash,
  as per request of some future learners. This will mainly affect Richel.
  This will be easiest to do if there is no shared project.

- [R] As we do not use issues in practice,
  I suggest to remove the session on issues.

- [R] As we do not use the kanban board in practice,
  I suggest to remove the session on kanban board.

- [R] As we do not use the risk assessment in practice,
  I suggest to remove that section.

- [R] As we do not use the requirements document in practice,
  I suggest to remove that section.

- [R] As our learners are academics,
  I suggest to replace a requirements document
  by a draft paper.

- [R] As we do not apply the content of 'Modularity' in practice,
  I suggest to remove this session.

- [R] As I think there is too big of a gap between the content
  of 'Object oriented development' and all other lectures,
  I suggest to rewrite or remove it.

- [R] As I think there should be enough time for function design,
  I suggest to remove all sessions on OOP, unless functions can be
  discussed properly.

