## Retrospective

Teachers are learners too. Please help us improve by sharing your opinion.
Ideally, it is something fixable, e.g. 'My camera did not work' is something
we cannot fix, but 'I had no way to interact (as my camera did not work) and the Zoom chat was not listened to' is.

### Continue: What went well?

- Most of the pair programming and TDD went well. 
  Really enjoyed todays topics and exercises. 
  I just had a great day with learning (from both teachers and other learners). 
  WE really got a chance to practice the workflow.
- Exercises were really fun, I really enjoyed today's exercises. 
  I really appreciate that we had more time for hands-on exercises.
- Good lectures and a lot of good exercices to get use to GitHub

### Improve: Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises?

- I think we had enough time for most exercises. 
  However, at this point you also know when it is fine to not finish an exercise.

### Stop: What held us back?

- The groups were switched too often, which in turn, 
  broke the continuity of lessons since everyone was doing somewhat different things.
- Expected to have more on Data structures and algorithms
- Too much GitHub, interesting but maybe it should be a separate course

### Invent: What can we improve?

- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...
- ...

### Action points by teachers

> - I think we had enough time for most exercises. 
>   However, at this point you also know when it is fine to not finish an exercise.

Maybe we should mention more clearly that exercises are often
time limited and it is OK to not finish: we (try to) make
sure you've done all that was needed, while also
catering for the faster learners.

> - The groups were switched too often, which in turn, 
>   broke the continuity of lessons since everyone was doing somewhat different things.

We understand this. The idea is that if you are in a pair that does not
work well, you'll switch soon enough. Indeed, this also breaks
good pairs. Next iteration of the course, I'll try 2 hour sessions.

> - Expected to have more on Data structures and algorithms

We agree. Richel decided to prioritize getting more experience in for
tomorrow. We teachers agree that should not have been needed
and we look for ways to streamline the course better.

> - Too much GitHub, interesting but maybe it should be a separate course

We agree. We really need GitHub to offer a context in which the
theoretical concepts start making sense.

We discuss: should we make the NBIS GitHub course a prerequisite?

 * [ ] TODO: add to evaluation of tomorrow: 

```
We use a lot of GitHub, although GitHub is not part of the course goals.
We do need to use GitHub, to give a context in which theoretical
concepts start making sense. 

However, we could require that our learners have followed the NBIS GitHub
course (or something similar) before the course.

Should we? Should we add this requirement?
```
