# Programming formalisms — Course April 2024

- Zoom:  <https://uu-se.zoom.us/j/61013274662>
    - Passcode: 202277
- Course material:
    - <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms>
- Shared project:
    - <https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_summer_2024>

## Today

- Q: Is there a way to visualise the git graph in VS-Code
- A: Yes in VS code there is a popular extention *git graph* which will give you a nice visual graph of your branches <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph> (Lars)

- Q: What "origin" means in the git push context?
- A: it is the source of your repository. For us, the origin is the GitHub repo

- Q: How does git remote works? Can you configure it to multiple online servers apart from Github?
- A: git remotes allow you to do a `git push` to some remote. In our case, the GitHub repo is the remote

- Q:Line endings in git
- A:<https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/configuring-git-to-handle-line-endings>

- Q:
- A:

- Q:
- A:

- Q:
- A:

- Q:
- A:


## Retrospective

Teachers are learners too. Please help us improve by sharing your opinion.
Ideally, it is something fixable, e.g. 'My camera did not work' is something
we cannot fix, but 'I had no way to interact (as my camera did not work) and the Zoom chat was not listened to' is.

### Continue: What went well?

- Creating and using branches on github
- Github repetitions was good practice
- Working with branches on git and how to deal with conflicts.
- Doing testing. Listening to awesome lectures. Learning new things!
- Can unsderstand well the git workflow now and enjoy how to doing test

### Improve: Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises?

### Stop: What held us back?

- Switching between VS-code and github caused some trouble in updating the branches on the terminal, causing some confusion in merging branches (solving conflicts).
-Short time for unittesting exercise, felt rushed
- Switching between users in pair-programming takes time. So maybe more time might be needed.
- More time for the testing exercises, not enough time to really try the testing.
- Need to pratise more in the testing exercises

### Invent: What can we improve?

### Action points by teachers

Only for teachers! Thanks for filling in!

---
