# Programming formalisms — Shared document Nov 2024

- 2024-11-18
- Distilled from shared document of same date

## What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Good discussions in breakout rooms, great support, diverse experience of audience, frequent breaks
- A: Discussion
- A: Discussions in breakout rooms
- A: Really well developed documentation with instructions and examples, hints etc
- A: Discussions
- A: The explanations and discussions
- A: Answering quickly on the team sessions to questions
- A: Having clear example on what to do help us to finish and understand the exercises better
- A: Discussions on real-life situations
- A: Having access to examples of done documents.
- A: Interactive discussions, input from everyone.

## What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: In some cases lack of concrete examples, the project itself wasn't that integrated into some of the exercises, sometimes not clear how to apply to research, often topics are more applicable to rly large projects, lecture closely matched course document
- A: 
- A:Short times in the breakout rooms
- A: Sometimes goals werent super clear (ie how to write requirements from scratch)
- A:Clearer documentation in some points
- A:Not getting used to the abbreviations quick enough and then not knowing what was being discussed
- A: course content in the website changing when it was already needed
- A:Unclear instructions on the assignments 
- A: No clear instruction on what to do. Having example will help. 
- A:Unclear directions
- A: For some discussions there was very limited time in breakout rooms
- A: Limited time 
- A: Not accurate information (links, instructions) in the course documents.

## What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A:Write a clearer documentation in some points and perhaps a "dictionary" for main terms
- A:More examples
- A:Write tasks more clearly (for example "Task 1: Do this or that")
- A: More hidden hints with correct answers
- A: Have a terminology section where abbreviations or more technical terms are defined in a clear and easy to find manner
- A:Separate presentation and course document, more info on how to apply to 1-person research (esp. risk section), Prepare a gold-standard requirements file so all participants can be on same page
- A: Since we are a small group, we could work independently and share with everyone, instead of breakout rooms
- A: Hints with instructions and directions for technical parts and possible issues
- A: Make a concrete example not specifically related to the exercise, especially given a limited time to do it.
- A:Phrase the exercises concisely already in the course website
- A:Give an example before move into the assignment 

## What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

- [Lars] - Go back to separate Lecture and Website documentation
- [Lars] - Double check Formatting of website markdown
- [Lars] - Add examples directly into hints.
- [Lars] - Clear tasks with hidden do a, then b then c.
- [Lars] - clearer links to example documentation gold-standard project.
- [Lars] add examples of how this helps if you are a solo developer.(Long term, as current examples are more team focused)
- [Lars] relate to more concrete resarch focused examples.
- [Lars] Examples don't need to read the text.
