# Programming formalisms

- 2024-11-21
- Distilled from shared document of same date

## What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Great references for future use
- A: Exercises, group work
- A: Having the code snippets up on the course website to use and those snippets having explanations too.
- A: The exercises help me understand the lectures. Working in groups is really good.
- A: Working in groups to test out the theory was super useful
- A: Working in groups, the examples and discussions.
- A: Group work

## What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Windows code snippets not working, took a lot of time from the exercises
- A: Not all the commands working on Windows
- A: Not knowing where to make the exercise files, was not specified in instructions
- A: Some of the  provided commands did not seem to work for windows. Had to improvise.
- A: Felt like the goals were not as clear today. Difficult to transfer the topics from today in a lecture. Felt like the project was not complex/functional enough to write proper documentation
- A: Unclear guide in the exercises (specifically in the documentation)
- A: Some things were very fast for me.


## What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Have a more functional project for which writing documentation actually provides worth. Installation/requirements/etc were not extensive enough for the exercises imo. Also maybe resetting the state of the project Github so everyone is on same page?
- A: Adding commands that work on windows as well as mac/linux
- A: Put everything practical that we are supposed to do within the exercises. It's a bit confusing when some parts are in the "theory part" with code that we are supposed to use and some parts are in "exercises"
- A: Have more realizable project. Make the guide much clearer.
- A: Early on ask about experience level amongst the group and group people based on their experience to enable more difficult exercises to be done.
- A: More clear exercises, specifying some points such as direction, folder etc. Something like step-by-step as well as in some examples and exercises.
