# Meeting notes 2024-09-04

- R: The course content seems a bit scattered, as I cannot
  conclude a rule that is used to yes/no discuss a topic.
  I think it would be good to have a clear rule behind our course
  material what should and what should not be discussed at this course.
  I hope we can suggest some rules and then vote for our favorite.
  - R: Only what is used by the student project is course content.
    The student project is a piece of maintainable and tested Python code.
- R: if possible, vote for a rule
- R: We discussed reordering the course material and that everyone would
  come up with a suggestion. What is the progress for everybody in this?
  - R: my ideas are in 
    [my reflections of the last course iteration](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/tree/main/reflections/2024_summer).
    Biggest change: learning the basic tools, i.e. `git` at day 1, so we can 
    then focus on theory. Maybe make next week a deadline for this?




