# Meeting notes 2024-09-18

- [Discuss evaluations](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/44),
  see below
- [Sketch future schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/45),
  see below

## Evaluation notes

These are the notes from [earlier meeting](20240911.md):

- General
    - B: breaks should be for breaks
        - B+L+R: agrees
    - B: learners don't read instructions in breaks
        - B+L+R: agrees
- Monday
    - B: We don't have workflows in the course yet.
        - Question is: what type of workflows: Snakemake and/or GitHub
            - GitHub:
                - Yes: L+R
                - No:
            - Snakemake, Nextflow:
                - Yes: In deploy but **just note** to other courses, B+L
                - No: R
- Wednesday
    - B: Switching between VS-code and github caused some trouble in updating the
    branches on the terminal, causing some confusion in merging branches (solving conflicts)
        - This is a technical issue we cannot help.
        - Use the command-line instead
        - Use the GitHub interface as much as possible and
       not to use `git -b` nor the VS code git plugin to simplify things
    - B: We hope there is enough time to fix the expected unexpected problems.
        - BC just learned that sync between GH and VS code should be easy,
      not needing ssh-keys,share in prereqs?
            - VScode sync: skip because of generality
            - Commandline with https: BC+L+R, uses command-line and optionally code snippets below from [his git notes](https://github.com/richelbilderbeek/git)

```bash
git config --global credential.helper cache
git config --global credential.helper 'cache --timeout=36000'
```

- Switching between users in pair-programming takes time. So maybe more time might be needed.
    - B: Agreed that this takes time. We hope there is enough time to do so.
    - R: Agreed. I think pair should be created only in the morning and in the afternoon,
    as a compromise
        - Yes: B+L+R
        - No:
- B: questions:
    - B: define discussion
        - student discussion?
            - R: when students talk more than 50% of the time,
            i.e. the teacher talks less than 50%
        - lesson material just covered in material and talk
            - R: there is feedback on the exercises made

## Schedule

State of the schedule at 2024-09-11:

- **Monday morning**:
    - Björn: course overview, 1 hour
    - Björn: basic git and setup and project start, 2 hours, also for people that know git
- **Monday afternoon**: Requirements modeling and risk assessment
    - Lars: Define the project
    - Lars: Make formal requirements model, create files, put on GitHub
    - Lars: Make formal risk assessment, create files, put on GitHub
- **Tuesday**:
    - Lars: SDLC (Software Development Lifecycle), 1 hour
    - Björn: git version control, from a reproducible research and social coding/development perspective, including branching and merging, ?Organize the project (we'll where this will land), 4 hours
    - Richel: ?Organize the project (we'll where this will land), GitHub workflow, Issues, Project page, 1 hour
- **Wednesday**:
    - Richel: Test-Driven Development (TDD) and function design
- **Thursday**:
    - Richel: Test-Driven Development and class design (TDD) (implement the project as a package by design)
- **Friday morning**:
    - Richel: optimization, 2 hours
    - Lars: object-oriented design, 1 hours
- **Friday afternoon**:
    - Björn: Deployment and documentation, 3 hours


## Training news-letter

- [ ] TODO by Lars, even though he is on holiday :-)

## Onboarding

- Friday 15th Nov 9:00-(max)10:00 by Björn and Richel

## Next meeting

Follow the notes of the meeting
