# Meeting notes 2024-09-18

- Discuss evaluations, see below too:

Notes from [earlier meeting](20240911.md):

- General
  - B: breaks should be for breaks
  - B: learners don't read instructions in breaks
- Monday 
  - B: We don't have workflows in the course yet. 
    - B: We often discuss what to put in yes/no and we feel now the other topics are even more important
- Wednesday
  - B: Switching between VS-code and github caused some trouble in updating the
    branches on the terminal, causing some confusion in merging branches (solving conflicts)
    - B: This is a technical issue we cannot help. 
  - B: We hope there is enough time to fix the expected unexpected problems.
    - BC just learned that sync between GH and VS code should be easy,
      not needing ssh-keys,share in prereqs?
- B: Switching between users in pair-programming takes time. So maybe more time might be needed.
  - B: Agreed that this takes time. We hope there is enough time to do so.
- B: questions:
    - B: define discussion
        - student discussion?
        - lesson material just covered in material and talk

- Sketch future schedule during meeting

State of the schedule at 2024-09-11:

- **Monday morning**: 
  - Björn: course overview
  - Björn: basic git
- **Monday afternoon**: Requirements modeling and risk assessment
    - Lars: Define the project
    - Make formal requirements model
    - Make formal risk assessment
- **Tuesday**: Git setup and version control, from a reproducible resarch and social coding/development perspective
    - Organize the project 
- **Wednesday**: Test-Driven Development (TDD) and function design
- **Thursday and Friday morning**: Test-Driven Development and class design (TDD) 
    - Implement the project as a package
- **Friday afternoon**: Deployment and documentation

