# Lesson plan Autumn 2024

- Author: Richel
- Date: 2024-10-21

On Thursday I will be discussing:

- (after Lars, on object-oriented design) class design
- has-a relation
- expressive data type
- (after Lars, on modular programming) Implement the project as a package

To do:

- [x] Create issues to fix the learners' project
- [x] Create issues for learners that have broken the main branch    
    - This was apparently fixed by a learner. Yay!
- [ ] Determine order for tomorrow, no rush to work on the learners' project
- [ ] Tomorrow 8:00: Check Lars' work

> I like it when a plan comes together.
>
> A dude from the A team, with a cigar

That is how I felt during the lesson yesterday. Now I have only a couple of
hours to update my material to the schedule. Let's plan things.

It is great to follow the pace of the learners, 
but now I am behind in schedule:


- [x] Look at Lars' work

I look at Lars' work and fixed the layout. Then there was a too complex
merge conflict. I reverted my work on a document being worked on :-) .
However, the exercise is too big of a leap: from never having
created a class, to write a Factory Design Pattern: that is a big leap.

I will help him out. Ah, I see in his most recent commit he is working on that.
Great!

- [x] Look at schedule, prioritize

I've made the schedule to this:

```
Thursday |09:00-10:00|Lars   |[Object-oriented design](design_develop/OO_development.md)
Thursday |10:15-11:00|Richel |[Function design](function_design/README.md)
Thursday |11:15-12:00|Richel |[Class design](data_structures/class_design.md), [has-a relation](data_structures/has_a_relation.md), [expressive data type](data_structures/expressive_data_type.md)
Thursday |13:00-14:00|Lars   |[Modular programming](./modularity/modular.md)
Thursday |14:15-15:00|Richel |[continuous integration](continuous_integration/README.md)
Thursday |15:15-16:00|Richel |[Implement the project as a package](package/README.md)
Thursday |15:40-16:00|Lars   |Confidence and retrospect
```

Status







Some questions for Friday evaluation:

- git from command line or git from VS Code
- name a maximal of 3 topics you want us to discuss to be removed
- name a maximal of 3 topics you want us to discuss to put more time in
- 
