# Lesson plan Autumn 2024

- Author: Richel
- Date: 2024-10-18

Before teaching, my course material seems on schedule to me.

At the teacher's coffee meeting,
I suggested to the relevant teacher to split up the group
when teaching git, so that the git experts can do something at
their skill level. We decided to see what happens.

I wonder if we have an 'Open Door Syndrome': 'planning is good',
'thinking is good, of course', 'you want reproducibility',
'documentation is an important thing'.
These statements are debatable.
Only references to the literature will
make those statements sound useful.

I have no idea what learners are expected to do.
This means I cannot help them.

## Prepare for 2024-10-19

- [x] Reflect on learners' Retrospect
- [x] Check if schedules match
    - [They differ](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/85)!
    - [x] Fixed
- [x] Check Lars' lesson
    - There is no class list being made!
- [x] Prepare Priors
- [x] Schedule time
- [x] Check earlier reflection
- [x] Check with learners' Retrospect again
- [x] TDD: add:
    - [x] Add hint: How to test if there is documentation?
    - [x] Add hint: How to test a function returns a value?
    - [x] Add hint: How to test a function does not return a value?
    - [x] Add hint: How to test if an exception is raised?
- [x] Check layout of pages
- [x] Practice TDD
- [x] Make video
- [x] Write evaluation questions

Give you confidence levels of the following statements below:

- I understand why issues are important
- I can create, assign and close an issue
- I understand why a kanban board is important
- I can use a kanban board
- I can name at least three roles that are present in a team
- I understand why TDD is important
- I can use TDD to develop functions
- I understand why `assert` is important
- I can debunk people saying that `assert` slows down code
- I understand why `assert` statements must have no side effects
- I understand that assert can be used to signal stubs
- I understand the benefit of using a testing framework
- I have written a test within a formal testing framework
- I understand why continuous integration is important
- I can fix an error given by at least one Continuous Integration script

- [x] Share with Lars
