# Retrospect Day 1

## What helped us learn (let us move forward) 2 min

- the posibility of interact and discuss both between students but also with the teachers
- requirements.md, resources for planning and ISOs
- The ability to discuss problems with other particpants to properly understnad taht 
- Discussions 
- Interactive exercises
- The discussions

## What stopped us from learning (What held us back) 2 min¶


- A: The time limit was a factor in discussing and continuing and my knowdge gap
- A:  theme on the 
- A: The exercises were challenging, and it could have helped to have to possibility to ask questions or have a chat with one of the teachers during the exercises.
      - [Richel] Was this for all exercises? If not, which session had this the most? 
          - The requirements and risks in particular, I think someone wrote before that the guidelines were a bit vague, and it's a bit like a crash course to dive directly into concepts that most people are not really familiar with. [Richel] Thanks!
 
## What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent) 2 min¶
    
- A: We could make language in exercises clearer
  - [Richel] Was this for all exercises? If not, which session had this the most?
- A: To be sure that everybody has a github account, we can change the first exercise (add students to the github projects) as a pre-requirement
    - [Richel] This is a fun idea!
- A: Do not use this website hackmd, is really messy
- A: Less flexibility with assigmnets, more structure there... how should the resulting file look like?
  - [Richel] Was this for all assignments? If not, which session had this the most?
- A: HackMD - great idea, less ideal execution
- A: Pick the most crucial exercises, although in retrospect all of them are quite important to learn development.
- A: Shorter but meaningful exercises, going through the results after the time allocated
          - [Richel] Was this for all exercises? If not, which session had this the most?

- Don't use this current tool for collecting feedback, it's very chaotic to use. 

- Going through example answers in the end of each exercise
      - [Richel] Was this needed for all exercises? If not, which session had this the most?

- A: Use lecture aids such as powerpoint or similar, instead of the more off-the-cuff lecture style. 
      - [Richel] Would you recommend this for all sessions? If not, which session could benefit the most/least?

#### Who keeps deleting evrything? TRUE

##  More time What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

Teachers only here :-)

- Lars will add example answer to his exercises
- Lars will try another tool than HackMD and add a page about Retrospect
- Richel will ask about which lectures should have a more powerpointy lecture style,
  so I can improve if it applies to me
- Richel will discuss the specificity of Retrospects: the more specific (who? which session?) the better!

## Confidence Report: (maximum 10min) You can leave when you are done.

Give you confidence levels of the following statements,
using this scale:

- 0: I don't know even what this is about ...?
- 1: I have no confidence I can do this
- 2: I have low confidence I can do this
- 3: I have some confidence I can do this
- 4: I have good confidence I can do this
- 5: I absolutely can do this!



    I can connect to the course repo:
- A: 5
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
-A: Yes
- A:5
- A: 5
-A: 4
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
I can find the needs/buissnes requirments:

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A : 5
- A: 3
- -A: 4
- A: 4
I can do a simple FMEA:

-A: 1
-  A: 3
- A: 3
- A: 3/4
- A:I had to google what does FMEA stands for. Appart from that I think its a 4. +1
- A: 3
- A: 2
- A: 4
-A:4
- A: 3
- A: 2
- A: 3
I know what FMEA stands for:


- A: 1
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A: 1
- A: 4
- A: 3
- A:4
- A: 1
- A:1
- Now I do...
- 
I can make an issue in the project:

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A:
-A: 3
- A: 5
-  A: 4
-A: 3
- A:3
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:5
I know basic Git:

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 5
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A:3
- A: 2

- A: 4
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A:5
I know what a Requirement is:

-A:4
- A: 5
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A: 5 
- A: 5
- -
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A:4
- A: 5
- A:5
- A: 4
I know how to write a formal requiremnts documentation:

- A:4
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 3
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 3
- A:3
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A:3
- A: 3

I know how a remote repo works:	

- A:4
- A:3
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A:3
I know why we specify requirments:
-A:5
- A : 5
- A:3
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:5
- A: 5

- A: 4
- -A: 5
- A: 5
- A:5
I know the purpose of formalism in Computer Science:
-A:5
- A : 4
- A:3
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 4
- A: 4

- A: 3
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:5
- A: 3


I know what are the outcomes of a program:
- A:3
-A:4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A:
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A : 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 5
- A:5
I know what a registerd report is?
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A: 5

I know why I should use a registerd report?
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A:

I know what verification means?
- A:
- A:
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A:

I know what validation means?
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A:
- A:
