---
tags:
  - retrospective
---

## Retrospective

Teachers are learners too. Please help us improve by sharing your opinion.
Ideally, it is something fixable, e.g. 'My camera did not work' is something
we cannot fix, but 'I had no way to interact (as my camera did not work) and the Zoom chat was not listened to' is.

### Continue: What went well?

- Creating and using branches on github
- Github repetitions was good practice
- Working with branches on git and how to deal with conflicts.
- Doing testing. Listening to awesome lectures. Learning new things!
- Can unsderstand well the git workflow now and enjoy how to doing test

### Improve: Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises?

### Stop: What held us back?

- Switching between VS-code and github caused some trouble
  in updating the branches on the terminal,
  causing some confusion in merging branches (solving conflicts)
- Short time for unittesting exercise, felt rushed
- Switching between users in pair-programming takes time. So maybe more time might be needed.
- More time for the testing exercises, not enough time to really try the testing.
- Need to pratise more in the testing exercises

### Invent: What can we improve?

### Action points by teachers

> - Switching between VS-code and github caused some trouble
>   in updating the branches on the terminal,
>   causing some confusion in merging branches (solving conflicts)

This is a technical issue we cannot help.
We hope there is enough time
to fix the expected unexpected problems.

> - Short time for unittesting exercise, felt rushed

Agree, that is why we continue tomorrow :-)

> - Switching between users in pair-programming takes time.
>   So maybe more time might be needed.

Agreed that this takes time.
We hope there is enough time
to do so.

> - More time for the testing exercises,
  not enough time to really try the testing.

Agree, that is why we continue tomorrow :-)

> - Need to pratise more in the testing exercises

Agree, that is why we continue tomorrow :-)

---
