---
tags:
  - shared
  - document
  - HackMD
---

# Programming formalisms — Shared document Nov 2024

- Zoom:  <https://uu-se.zoom.us/j/66734860266>
    - Passcode: 195328

- Course material:
    - <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms>
- Shared project:
    - <https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_autumn_2024>

### Retrospect

##### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

##### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:


##### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]


## Thursday

### Retrospect

##### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Good with range in difficulty. Group exercises are great!
- A:Bigger range in difficulty of exercises
- A: Group learning is always fun. Frequent brakes. The reading for a few minutes into discussion is nice if you call someone out! otherwise it drags a bit bc no one dares to speak first.
- A:
- A: The tips and code snippets for helping do exercises
- A: Range of difficulties help assess first the things you understand. Pair programming really help.
- A:Designated time for reading is good!
- A:
- A:

##### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Not following schedule is a bit confusing, I think we worked on thursday, tuesday and wednesday today.
- A: felt like some topics were almost skipped over (obviously due to time). But if we dont have time for them maybe we do not need to bring them up.
- A: The concepts themselves being very abstract and difficult
- A: Some of the topics are hard to learn while not actually applying them. E.g. while I think I have a good grasp of what modular programming is I'm not sure I could recognize it.
- A: Applying the lesson directly to the field that you are not familiar with kinda need more time. Additionally, just watching lecture video for a specific topic to learn sometimes is not helpful cause there are concept introduce that was not mentioned in class.
- A: Starting the day with the most difficult part of the day (before properly waking up haha)
- A: The youtube lecture was a bit hard to follow, could be better with more examples and images.
- A:
- A:


##### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Maybe use the workflow: individual reading -> discussion -> exercises in group for stuff like modular programming. Also be more clear with the schedule I got lost a few times today after zoning out.
- A: Give more concrete examples for the abstract concepts (like what are objects in the programming world)
- A: The function design discussion was nice, maybe follow that format more.
- A: Maybe have a table of definitions and their equivalent names in object oriented programming and non-object-oriented, including the relationsnhips between them. (classes, methods, functions etc)
- A:
- A: Give code examples of modular programming and refactoring
- A:
- A:
- A:

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

