---
tags:
  - shared
  - document
  - HackMD
---

# Programming formalisms — Shared document Nov 2024

- Zoom:  <https://uu-se.zoom.us/j/66734860266>
    - Passcode: 195328

- Course material:
    - <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms>
- Shared project:
    - <https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_autumn_2024>

## Tuseday

### Confidence Report Menti


### Retrospect

##### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Was interesting to discuss and read more, and figure it out by ourselves.
- A: Teamwork and discussions was good
- A: Having practical example really help and discuss it. Video helps too.
- A:
- A: Examples in the form of screenshots
- A: Examples in the documentation, the interaction activity between teacher and student, the discussion.
- A:
- A: Working together on problems
- A: Having examples in the information pages, and answers
- A: Better examples and clearer instructions

##### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: A very fast pace, at times there was too much info to absord (ie unit testing)
- Having to juggle both doing something for the project and also focusing on the exercises at the same time
- A: Lack of time to complete the exercises.
- A:Not knowing form the start exactly what to do during the exercises
- A: Little time to work on exercises after understanding all the info
- A: Laggy teaching video
- A: From simple example to applying it to project design in a short period of time is quiet challenging.
- A: Not knowing where to find certain things (kambam board, the correct learners folder etc)
- A: Not knowing from where to start and to where to go
- A: Not enough time for the exercises, not knowing the time limit for the exercises.
- A: Teaching video not working properly, wasn't able to see the code properly because of this.

##### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Give more time to absorb information before having to apply it on a big project
- A: Either focus on simpler exercises and learning or focus on project work
- A: More clear tasks
- A: Focusing on less topics and working on those more deeply and with more time
- A: take into account the time that these feedback sessions need (second day that the last exercise session is cut short)
- A: In the teaching video show both the code and where it is being copied from, for clarity
- A: Give more time
- A:Maybe more time or simpler(focused) exercises.
- A:
- A: Tell us how much time we have for completing all exercises. Helps us to not spend too much time on just one of the exercises and then the time is up without us knowing.

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]


- A: In the teaching video show both the code and where it is being copied from, for clarity

## Wednesday

### Confidence Report Menti


### Retrospect

##### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: More time to finish exercises
- A: Working in pairs and doing exercises together
- A: Taking a longer time to do exercises and learn and understand what we are doing
- A:Very nice graphics for helping do exercises today
- A:Getting clearer examples on the formal testing
- A:Clear instructions and more time to finish.
- A:Appropriate time to complete the exercises and having goos resources by hand to check theory and examples.
- A: Having enough time to understand and to work together the exercise really help a lot to understand and finish the task.
- A: Working together, discussion, exercises.
- A: Pair programming exercise was really nice, testing documentation was great

##### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Testing could've been a bit deeper. Covering things like mocking. No idea how good pair programming is supposed to look like in practice (only in theory).
- A: Such lack in code knowledge.
- A: Didn't know exactly how to do the formal testing in pycharm
- A: Certain knowledge gaps when it comes to python coding
- A: Unit testing being a difficult concept
- A: the pull request exercise and the pretend code review exercise were very similar.
- A: VS code not cooperating with the testing module
- A: Some exercises was a bit confusing (ex Exercise 2: put example code to fit the testing framework)
- A: Coding knowledge influence the speed to do the exercises and how much we understan.
- A: The morning lectures seem didn't explain clearly

##### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Maybe perform a quick round of pair programming with the teachers, to me it was not clear how to behave as navigator and I felt like I was micromanaging and being a bad navigator. Refer to online documents for further research in testing (maybe I just missed it). Distribute a cheat sheet after each day summarizing most important?
- A: Include tutorial link or something to get testing to work in another IDE than vs code, instead of just saying "try to get it to work in your IDE".
- A:
- A: More examples for each topic
- A: If possible simplify things even further, or expand on rationale behind each step not just "big picture"
- A: Maybe have a example on testing the code.
- A:Having "extra" exercises that are more difficult that one can try when done with the regular exercises.
- A: Make the lecture clear and concise. Better to give a practical examples than just explain the concept.
- A: Give more practical examples of git forking and branching and when it is appropriate to use them.
- A: Maybe more practical examples.

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]


- A:
