# Programming formalisms — Shared document Nov 2024

- Zoom:  <https://uu-se.zoom.us/j/66734860266>
    - Passcode: 195328

- Course material:
    - <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms>
- Shared project:
    - <https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_autumn_2024>

### Retrospect

##### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: 
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

##### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:


##### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

## Friday

### Retrospect

##### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Great references for future use
- A: Exercises, group work 
- A: Having the code snippets up on the course website to use and those snippets having explanations too.
- A:
- A: The exercises help me understand the lectures. Working in groups is really good. 
- A: Working in groups to test out the theory was super useful
- A: Working in groups, the examples and discussions.
- A: Group work
- A:

##### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Windows code snippets not working, took a lot of time from the exercises
- A: Not all the commands working on Windows
- A: Not knowing where to make the exercise files, was not specified in instructions
- A: Some of the  provided commands did not seem to work for windows. Had to improvise.
- A: Felt like the goals were not as clear today. Difficult to transfer the topics from today in a lecture. Felt like the project was not complex/functional enough to write proper documentation
- A: Unclear guide in the exercises (specifically in the documentation) 
- A:
- A: Some things were very fast for me.
- A:


##### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Have a more functional project for which writing documentation actually provides worth. Installation/requirements/etc were not extensive enough for the exercises imo. Also maybe resetting the state of the project Github so everyone is on same page?
- A: 
- A: Adding commands that work on windows as well as mac/linux
- A: 
- A: Put everything practical that we are supposed to do within the exercises. It's a bit confusing when some parts are in the "theory part" with code that we are supposed to use and some parts are in "exercises"
- A: Have more realizable project. Make the guide much clearer.
- A: Early on ask about experience level amongst the group and group people based on their experience to enable more difficult exercises to be done.
- A: More clear exercises, specifying some points such as direction, folder etc. Something like step-by-step as well as in some examples and exercises.
- A:

### Teacher improvment google form
    https://forms.gle/wf8ohmsgSEBJc93c6
### Certification **Will not be published on Github**
follow this link and add your full name and email and if you also need a discription with your course [certificate](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eTueJR4Zn2FNnzz1zypD7Z6QG9ayHIrZldCyaoaS8sA/edit?usp=sharing).

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]
