# Reflection

- Date: 2024-11-20
- Author: Richel

I am curious what the learners give back today again:
yesterday there was no unambiguous feedback for Lars,
where there were some clearly for me only.
And I've listened, as can be seen in my lesson plans.
It heavily improved my lessons!

Before teaching, I already see that there are 17 branches
and 13 Pull Requests. Björn did a great job there!

## During teaching

I predict that getting VS Code to use tests is a thing
mentioned at the Retrospect.

I think it went well.

I am too tired, after working too many hours yesterday.

Let's see what the learners say, then back to work.

## Retrospect

### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: More time to finish exercises
- A: Working in pairs and doing exercises together
- A: Taking a longer time to do exercises and learn and understand what we are doing
- A:Very nice graphics for helping do exercises today
- A:Getting clearer examples on the formal testing
- A:Clear instructions and more time to finish.
- A:Appropriate time to complete the exercises and having goos resources by hand to check theory and examples.
- A: Having enough time to understand and to work together the exercise really help a lot to understand and finish the task.
- A: Working together, discussion, exercises.
- A: Pair programming exercise was really nice, testing documentation was great

### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: the pull request exercise and the pretend code review exercise were very similar.
- A: The morning lectures seem didn't explain clearly

Not mine.

- A: Testing could've been a bit deeper. Covering things like mocking. No idea how good pair programming is supposed to look like in practice (only in theory).

Ha, an advanced learner!


As predicted

- A: VS code not cooperating with the testing module

- A: Didn't know exactly how to do the formal testing in pycharm

- A: Such lack in code knowledge.

- A: Certain knowledge gaps when it comes to python coding
- A: Unit testing being a difficult concept
- A: Some exercises was a bit confusing (ex Exercise 2: put example code to fit the testing framework)

Too bad, I tried hard. Will look again later

- [x] Make clearer where to put code

- A: Coding knowledge influence the speed to do the exercises and how much we understan.

### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Give more practical examples of git forking and branching and when it is appropriate to use them.

Not mine.

- A: Make the lecture clear and concise. Better to give a practical examples than just explain the concept.

Not mine, I think.

- A: Maybe more practical examples.

Not mine, I think.

- A: Maybe perform a quick round of pair programming with the teachers,
  to me it was not clear how to behave as navigator and I felt like I
  was micromanaging and being a bad navigator. Refer to online documents for
  further research in testing (maybe I just missed it). Distribute a cheat
  sheet after each day summarizing most important?

Agree. I doubted to do another demo during lesson, but did not want to
disturb.

- [x] Add this to the lesson, as an exercise

- A: Include tutorial link or something to get testing to work in another
  IDE than vs code, instead of just saying "try to get it to work in your IDE".

We recommend VS Code. We cannot write docs for all others.

- A: Maybe have a example on testing the code.

Agreed, no time yet

- [x] [Show how to get VSCode testing running in video](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/129)

- A: More examples for each topic
- A: If possible simplify things even further,
  or expand on rationale behind each step not just "big picture"
- A:Having "extra" exercises that are more difficult
  that one can try when done with the regular exercises.

Unsure how to deal with this now. Need sleep first.

#### What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

Sleep.
