# Reflection

- Date: 2024-11-19
- Author: Richel

Yesterday, I felt bad because I could not help as good as I could.
This was because **I** did not know what the learners needed to do.
I hope next time, the exercises are clear enough for me to be able
to help.

- [x] [Request worked-out examples of other teachers](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/94)

## First half

I started with issues, kanban board and developer experience.
I talk until 10:42, then sent the learners to rooms in duos.
I could see the issues come in and saw things happening at the
kanban board.
I checked the rooms regularily.
I think this was a good enough session.

The TDD part started explaining why it is important,
how the exercise needs to be done and I put the
learners in separate rooms at 11:22.
I checked rooms regularily and had 4x a question.
At 13:00 I will do a demo together with a learner,
to show the full workflow.
I think I have found a great
volunteer to do TDD with.

I think the order was incorrect:

- [x] First discuss `assert`

I wanted to do TDD first, because I feel that learners need
a lot of time to read in peace and quiet. Because I felt the pressure
of the limited schedule, I probably put TDD in a too early slot.

## Second half

As far as I could see, the simpler exercises were
done successfully. Problems are the exercises to
work on the project: they are too vague and/or complex.
I had to tell how to create an issue and work from it.

- One solution would be to have a more pre-fabricated project,
  with a simpler setup, with pre-written requirements
  and issues.
- [x] [Consider this](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/123)

Or: I feel the 'when do, work on the project' idea
does not work well: the step is too big,

Let's go through the Retrospect.

## Retrospect

### What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Was interesting to discuss and read more, and figure it out by ourselves.
- A: Teamwork and discussions was good
- A: Having practical example really help and discuss it. Video helps too.
- A: Examples in the form of screenshots
- A: Examples in the documentation, the interaction activity between teacher and student, the discussion.
- A: Working together on problems
- A: Having examples in the information pages, and answers
- A: Better examples and clearer instructions

### What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: A very fast pace, at times there was too much info to absord (ie unit testing)
- A: Lack of time to complete the exercises.
- A: Little time to work on exercises after understanding all the info

I agree, I should slow down more.

- [x] [Slow down, actually follow the pace of the learners](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/111)
  Ignore the schedule more

- A: Having to juggle both doing something for the project and also focusing on the exercises at the same time

I super agree! No idea how to solve this now ...

- A: Not knowing from the start exactly what to do during the exercises
- A: From simple example to applying it to project design in a short period of time is quiet challenging.
- A: Not knowing from where to start and to where to go

Yup, the project exercises are more vague/complex.

- [x] Reduce the project exercises for now

- A: Laggy teaching video
- A: Teaching video not working properly, wasn't able to see the code properly because of this.

Agreed, I did not check. I did not know VSCode slows down a video recording,
maybe my laptop is not powerful enough?

- A: Not knowing where to find certain things (kanban board, the correct learners folder etc)

I should fix this with more screenshots next time

- [x] Describe better where to find things

- A: Not enough time for the exercises, not knowing the time limit for the exercises.

I can be more specific there.

### What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

Slow down:

- A: Give more time to absorb information before having to apply it on a big project
- A: Focusing on less topics and working on those more deeply and with more time
- A: take into account the time that these feedback sessions need (second day that the last exercise session is cut short)
- A: Give more time
- A: Maybe more time or simpler(focused) exercises.

Simpler exercises:

- A: Either focus on simpler exercises and learning or focus on project work
- A: Maybe more time or simpler(focused) exercises.
- A: More clear tasks

Simpler exercises versus course project

- A: Either focus on simpler exercises and learning or focus on project work

Video:

- A: In the teaching video show both the code and where it is being copied from, for clarity

Time:

- A: Tell us how much time we have for completing all exercises.
  Helps us to not spend too much time on just one of the exercises
  and then the time is up without us knowing.

## What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

- [x] [Fix video](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/98)
- [x] More time (in multiple forms):
    - [Discuss with team: should I/we reduce my/own content and/or remove the project?](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/99)
        - RB: I volunteer to reduce content and suggest to keep the project
- [x] Mix of simple exercises and project work:
    - [Discuss with team: should I/we remove the project or schedule it as project hours?](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/100)
        - RB: I volunteer to schedule some of my hours as project hours

`[end of Retrospect]`

For tomorrow, I will slow down and focus on simpler exercises.

I feel I need to rethink complex content, such as formal unit testing:

- Should I lecture more? Unsure
- Should there be exercises on the content only? Maybe

I think the Retrospect takes too long. 3 minutes.
I prefer it to be in a form where learners can leave
when done.
