# Reflection

- Date: 2024-11-21
- Author: Richel

I enjoyed the day a lot, I enjoyed working with our learners.
I do notice that the learners are getting tired.
Same for me: I should sleep ...

But first, let's go through the retrospect:

## What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Good with range in difficulty. Group exercises are great!

Yay!

- A: Bigger range in difficulty of exercises

Yay!

- A: Group learning is always fun. Frequent brakes.
  The reading for a few minutes into discussion is nice if you call someone out!
  otherwise it drags a bit bc no one dares to speak first

Yup, he/she is right. I should also mention that I will do so before
the reading.

- A: The tips and code snippets for helping do exercises

If applies to me: yay!

- A: Range of difficulties help assess first the things you understand.
  Pair programming really help.

Yay!

- A: Designated time for reading is good!

Yay!

## What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Not following schedule is a bit confusing,
  I think we worked on thursday, tuesday and wednesday today.

Learners is right: I adapted it to the learners' pace

- A: felt like some topics were almost skipped over (obviously due to time).
  But if we dont have time for them maybe we do not need to bring them up.

I did move things, but not have skipped anything yet.

- A: The concepts themselves being very abstract and difficult

Unsure if this applies to me.

- A: Some of the topics are hard to learn while not actually applying them.
  E.g. while I think I have a good grasp of what modular programming is
  I'm not sure I could recognize it.

Does not apply to me.

- A: Applying the lesson directly to the field that you are not familiar with
  kinda need more time. Additionally, just watching lecture video for a
  specific topic to learn sometimes is not helpful cause there are concept
  introduce that was not mentioned in class.

Does not apply to me.

- A: Starting the day with the most difficult part of the day
  (before properly waking up haha)

Does not apply to me.

- A: The youtube lecture was a bit hard to follow,
  could be better with more examples and images.

Does not apply to me.

## What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Maybe use the workflow: individual reading -> discussion
  -> exercises in group for stuff like modular programming.
  Also be more clear with the schedule
  I got lost a few times today after zoning out.

This is great!

- A: Give more concrete examples for the abstract concepts
  (like what are objects in the programming world)

I feel this does not appy to me.

- A: The function design discussion was nice,
  maybe follow that format more.

I feel encouraged here :-)

- A: Maybe have a table of definitions and their equivalent names in
  object oriented programming and non-object-oriented, including the
  relationsnhips between them. (classes, methods, functions etc)

I volunteered to do so.

- A: Give code examples of modular programming and refactoring

I feel this does not appy to me.

## What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

- Changing schedule is a problem
    - [x] Explain we do student-centered learning on Day 1 of the course
      [#111](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/111)
- [x] Make list of definitions [#112](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/112)
- [x] More code examples [#113](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/113)
- [x] Remove YouTube video for modular programming
  [#114](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/114)
- [x] Give more concrete examples for the abstract concepts in OOP
  [#115](https://github.com/UPPMAX/programming_formalisms/issues/114)

