# Programming formalisms — Shared document Oct 2025

- Zoom: `[removed]`
    - Passcode: `[removed]`

- Course material:
    - <https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms>
- Shared project:
    - <https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_autumn_2025>

(RJCB: I removed the day 1 part)

## Day 2

## Retrospect

## What helped us learn (let us move forward)

- A: Interaction during explanations
- A: Better instructions for exercises compared to yesterday
- A:The practical exercises were really great !
- A: Richel's enthusiasm :-)
- A: Individual feedback for exercises
- A:nice explanations and instructions for the tutorials, easy to follow, always there for questions
- A:The exercises were helpful! Practising it and getting feedback is good!
- A:
- A:The live examples. It was helpful to get an explanation of the structure of the lesson before starting. Having a chance to ask questions in the individual breaking room.
- A:
- A:
- A:
## What stopped us from learning (What held us back)

- A: Sometimes the assignements are unclear
- A: No live examples for TDD, I would have appreciated at least one live demonstration of the methods before the exercises, and not just discussing it theoretically - it is a bit counterintuitive.
- A: Too little knowledge in python to be able to feel confident in writing tests correctly - are you sure the initial requirements for the course are really enough?
- A: rather similar examples, not really sure how this expand (especially TDD) to more complex settings, How easy is it to find tests then?
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A: I got issues with git in VS code but that probably comes down to my inexperience.
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:
## What could we do to improve learning (What can we invent)

- A: Better defined assignements ?
- A: Give at least one live example of TDD before letting the students tackle the challenge by themselves. Or maybe suggest to watch one of the videos first? 
- A:Maybe a bit more hands-on exercise is good. Something a little complex.
- A:Also, how to relate these good practices in our programming for our disciplines, for example assert and stuff won't work for simulations and other programming.
- A: Do the first TDD example as a team and not individually - one good example would save from waisting time on pracitising the wrong method
- A: Showcasing an exemplary more complex example
- A: 
- A:A way to communicate with the teacher when inside breakout rooms!
- A: 
- A:
- A:3 minutes for the retrospective questions is too long, we always end up answering the next questions during the first one :). maybe 2min? 2:30?
- A:A bit more use case discussion on issues - like a how does it look like for a sample/real life project
- 

## What will we do(Act) [Teachers only]

- Lars clearify excersises
- Time management, make morning session more hands on less theory
- Change from twice a year to only spring. to allow for more prep time for teachers.
- Define clear roles before.

## Confidence Report: (10min)

Give you confidence levels of the following statements,
using this scale:

- 0: I don't know even what this is about ...?
- 1: I have no confidence I can do this
- 2: I have low confidence I can do this
- 3: I have some confidence I can do this
- 4: I have good confidence I can do this
- 5: I absolutely can do this!

 I can create, assign and close an issue"

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 5
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

 I can use TDD to develop functions

- A: 3
- A: 2
- A: 4
- A:
- A:3
- A:
- A: 2
- A:
- A:

 
 I can use a kanban board

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A:3
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

 I know how to  make a risk for a requirment
 
- A: 2 (but I missed that part unfortunately)
- A: 3
- A: 3
- A: 2
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:

I know the major parts of a development cycle

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A:
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:

I know the major technical risks with a SW project

- A: 2 (also missed that part)
- A: 
- A: 3
- A: 2
- A:2
- A: what does SW stand for, again? 
- A:
- A:
- A:


I know where to find the 'latest' best practices

- A: 2
- A: 1
- A: 2
- A: 4
- A:
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand what SDLC is

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 3
- A: 3
- A:2
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

I know what a Feature is

- A: 4
- A: 3
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A:3
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand how features relate to Requirments

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 4
- A:
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand why TDD is important

- A: 4
- A: 4
- A: 2
- A: 5
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:4
- A:

I understand why `assert` is important

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A:3
- A:
- A: 3
- A:
- A:

I understand why a kanban board is important

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:3
- A: 5
- A:
- A:
- A:
- A:

I understand why issues are important

- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A: 5
- A:
- A:4
- A:
- A:
- A:

