# 2025-05-06

- Day 2
- Author: Richel

I went to sleep directly after teaching, hence did not reflect.
As I will be teaching today, let's be short.

These are things I already wrote down:

- RB improves feedback on exercises
- RB also wants to experiment with a 5-mins-to-read
  exercise
- Mix theory and practice more

From this feedback ...

- A: I like the theorical background, a bit more would be neat

... and my own feelings, I feel now theory is indeed thin.
I start to see this now. I still think practicing
skills have their place, but I could add more theoretical sessions.
Maybe a response to other pure-theory sessions..?

From this feedback ...

- A: the requirements for the project are a bit unclear to me, so creating suitable issues was challenging
- A: I think there are two requirements/design files?
- A: Have a clear (and finished) file for the project requirements

I will use [the requirements that I prepared](https://github.com/programming-formalisms/programming_formalisms_project_summer_2025/blob/main/docs/requirements.md)

This feedback, however, is new and I am quite thankful for it ...

- A: Not so much feedback on exercises
- A: Could be good with a summary session to see that everyone got the important points from the exercises
- A: Could have been useful with a recap after the exercises

... as I know how important feedback is! My lessons have 'warped' from
being round to having feedback with pre-given answers.

Also time for digestion is new ...

- A: not enough time to digest/review
- A: Have some time reserved in the schedule for self study and QA
- A: Extend the course time or crop the program a bit to give more time for labs/digesting/lecturing

... and I am unsure how to deal with this.

About the first hour:

- [Exercise 1](https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/introductions/sdlc/#exercise-1-10-min)
  took 30 minutes, instead of the scheduled 10 minutes. Although the exercise
  was intended to be plenary, it was mostly the teacher talking
  and 1 learner talking. I think I've already seen an idea to restructure
  this exercise, after seeing it did not work out as expected
- [Exercise 2](https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/introductions/sdlc/#exercise-2-10-min)
  asks to practice mermaid. Nowhere it is mentioned what it is and
  why this is important. Also, nowhere is it described of why
  making a flowchart of the requirements is important. I guess it is called
  a 'User story' or 'Use case', consider explaining first what it is
  and why it is useful
- [Exercise 3](https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/introductions/sdlc/#exercise-3-10-min)
  asks to produce a feature list. Nowhere it is mentioned what it is and
  why this is important. Consider explaining first what it is
  and why it is useful

